.
Does that look alright?
Mm-hmm.
That's my friend Nathan.
He's dead.
.
I'm afraid that the latest data tells us that we're dealing with essentially a worst case scenario.
I think the truth is good for kids. We're so busy lying we don't even recognize the truth no more than society.
We want everybody to feel good. That's not the way life is.
This episode is sponsored by Moink. That's Mo plus Moink.
But you can tell if someone's lying you know you can sort of feel it in people.
And I have lied. I'm sure I'll lie again. I don't want to lie.
You know I don't think I'm a liar. I try not to be a liar. I don't want to be a liar.
I think it's like really important not to be a liar.
I'm afraid that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data
tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that the latest data tells us
that the latest data tells us that the
latest data tells us that the latest data tells us that
And that interview is going to entail meeting a EMT and another vaccine injured person from Canada I think it's going to be a really interesting discussion where we're going to try to stay focused on the biology.
Of course, we're not going to be taking their bait.
And of course we're going to be loving our neighbors even up in Canada so I'm looking forward to that, unfortunately because this is like a one man show with the help of my best friend as much a she can do and she keep us back,
keeps the whole household running.
It's new people sharing my work,
so keep doing it, it's really working well.
I mean, we're way below the number of subscribers
that we need, but that doesn't necessarily mean
that I'm pessimistic.
I think actually we're doing pretty well.
We're doing pretty well because I see the views,
I see people sharing, I get feedback by email
from people who are excited about the information
that they're getting, not everybody can support.
I get that, but the more we get this around,
we're not looking for tens of thousands of subscribers.
We don't need to have a sub-stack
the size of Jessica Rose,
we don't need to have a sub-stack the size of Robert Malone.
I don't need 50,000 paid subscribers.
We really just need a thousand.
If we had a thousand, this family of five would be fine.
I would be able to do this full-time.
I think my wife would be able to do yoga
and take care of our family as well
as she's doing right now and better.
And more importantly, this information
would be sustainable forever.
It would never stop.
And so these people who courageously put their flag on mine
or put their name on my flag,
I can't thank you enough on behalf of me
and my two sons and daughter and my best friend and wife.
I mean, the independent Bright Web
has got to start somewhere.
And I think with people like Hugh Satanic Live
with Mark Koolack doing his work
with Jessica Hockett tearing up Twitter
with Giga Home Biological now streaming
at least two or three places all the time.
I'm not streaming from YouTube today
because I'm going to try to pull all of my stuff
from YouTube Live.
I didn't want to download it all
and I hate to screen capture from YouTube
because I'm lazy.
So I'm going to use YouTube
and so we're going to be streaming and pulling
and so I wanted to keep that band move open.
I don't know if that's going to be a trick that works
but we'll see what happens.
Never more than now.
Is it true that this illusion is sustained
only through our active participation?
And every time they try to send up another signal flare
like, oh my goodness, there's an eclipse coming
and all the states are declaring a state of an emergency
because they're going to shut down the internet
or something like that.
I mean, I guess that's possible.
I think it's a lot more likely that the eclipse
is going to cause a lot of people to want to go see it
because they've got a chance to see something
and they never may see again.
And you know, the reality of Earth astronomy,
I mean, if you want the real truth
is I understand it unless you're a flat Earth Earth.
Eclipse has happened quite often.
It's just a question of are you there to see it
and who's there to see it?
And there's an awful lot of ocean
over which eclipses can occur.
And there's a lot of, you know, it's just all a,
I don't know.
I think if we stay focused and don't take the bait
and assume that most of what's on that social media
is bait, we're going to be all right.
We're going to be all right.
We stick together, everything is going to be fine.
I have a real feeling that what we got to do
is get biology in our head.
Once we understand it better than they do,
then we're immune, right?
As long as we are vulnerable to bamboozlement
because we lack the understanding then yes.
But if we get the biology into our head as Jeff has,
Jeff has really crammed it in there.
I mean, he's taken it to a little extreme.
I'll give you that, but, you know, God bless him.
And in all seriousness,
everybody should send some energy up to Canada
because Jeff did that scar was made for a reason.
And so we're, we're very happy that his recovery
has been so relatively bump-free,
but let's hope that it continues that way.
Let's hope he stays in good health
and the worst thing he has to pay attention to
is his successful business being attacked
by all the latest DEI and other crap
that's going on in our world.
Thank you very much.
Jeff is a very good supporter of the stream.
A crazy good supporter of the stream.
Him and his wife, Cara, do a lot of stuff
behind the scenes to organize a schedule
that I don't pay attention to.
So one of the reasons for example,
that I'm gonna be on with Jason Levine this evening.
Where the hell am I?
What, what, what the?
Shoot, hello, ladies and gentlemen.
This is GIGO and biological,
high-resistance low noise information
brought to you by a biologist.
It's April 4th, 2024.
I apologize.
I wasn't even looking at the screen at that time.
We are in a situation where, you know,
it's only a few of us, but it's people like Jeff and Cara
in Canada that support, whoops, that's the wrong button,
that support what I'm doing here
and what, what, what me and my family
are trying to accomplish more and more.
It's becoming very obvious that this is a family affair
because number one, I've always been aware
that as I've been slowly losing my mind
as a recovering academic biologist,
that one of the reasons why I've been able
to keep the train on the rails
is because of my best friend and wife.
Never once doubting me, even though clearly
I was claiming that this guy was falling for several years.
And so, yeah, thanks to her
and thanks to my kids for also believing in their dad.
And so, yeah, this is really an effort
of just a family that rents their house in Pittsburgh
coming to you live from a garage
that looks a little better than a garage,
but it's really not, we got kind of lucky
when we had to move from our house
that we hoped to own forever.
In the north side of Pittsburgh,
we got lucky enough to be able to move into a house
that had a little kind of studio behind the garage.
And we did choose it because as a family,
already two years ago, we were already all in.
And when we saw this house, it was like,
well, we don't have enough bedrooms for the boys
and the basement is small, but the garage is pretty big.
It's big enough for your stupid motorcycle.
And it's got this little wood shop in the back
that you could make into a studio.
And so for two years now,
my kids have been sharing bedrooms
and we're not suffering in some terrible way,
but I just want you to see how it is really a family
that's all in and I got a lot of credit needs
to be given to my wife who doesn't get any,
there's no memorial or star here for her.
And she permits me to do all this stuff
and basically facilitates it by never once
having an even shadow of a doubt in me.
So yeah, I can't say enough about that.
So thank you very much.
I don't know why I'm saying it on April 4th
because this is not a special date for us.
Anyway, where was I going to go with this?
Oh yeah.
So basically, of course,
we're always breaking down the same thing.
You just have to understand
that they've been telling us stories for a long time.
We've been governed by stories.
You're a revolve, whatever that skinny golem looking guy.
We'll tell you that we've always been governed by stories,
but the question is just what kind of truth
are you willing to tell?
And we're never going to have informed consent
as sovereign citizens of any republic
unless we exercise that informed consent with action.
That means basically educating yourself.
You're going to have to learn what fractional reserve banking
is, you're going to have to learn
how the legislative process in the United States
has been used against us for decades.
You're going to have to understand
how secret budgets have been used against us for decades.
how the forward facing sort of people of government
have been used against us by telling us stories
that aren't directly related
to what's really going on behind the scenes.
We've always known that with foreign policy
and with certain stories about marriage
or what's happening in their personal life,
but it never dawned on us
that we would be governed by a complete,
encyclopedic mythological state of reality
where we don't really know the cutting edge of anything.
And we've been told sort of cartoon versions of it
so that we could be enslaved.
And it's a kind of a dark narrative,
but it's also a very hopeful one
because if that's where we are right now
when we still have houses and we still have running water
and we still have roads that we can prepare,
we still have bridges we can repair,
we still have banks that we can close and audit.
We still have an IRS that we can close and audit.
We still have a federal reserve that we could close
and audit we still have people that are alive,
that know what's going on,
that we could water board, for example.
I mean, that's kind of a joke, of course.
But there is still hope and I still feel hope.
I don't think that they've come anywhere near
to the kind of total control that they want us to believe.
I still think it's very important to have a firm grip
on the standing hypothesis
of what recently happened over the last four years.
I think that the who declared a pandemic
of a dangerous novel virus that was detectable
by a nonspecific PCR test that was likely rolled out
in a background and its exposure was carefully curated
to be misconstrued as spread using this test
and a combination of media, bullets and financial incentives,
which caused a mass casualty events.
Those mass casualty events may have been coordinated
by the US government, the Department of Homeland Security,
the Department of Defense, I don't know.
It's also possible that they could have seeded
the molecular evidence for the virus being in Wuhan
or in Iran or in Italy or in Washington
in the Shohomish County man
by using what is called an infectious clone
because RNA virology is essentially based on this methodology.
And after carefully thinking and reading
and listening to other people talk about this stuff
from decades past and currently,
I have come to the very humble conclusion
that people like Mark Bailey are correct about SARS-CoV-2.
And in particular, I think we can summarize it best
and most safely by saying that an RNA molecule
cannot sustain a pandemic.
And yet that's what we have been told has happened.
And I believe that the reason why we are being told
this mythology is so that we will teach it to our children.
And the direct effect of that will be that they will submit,
their sovereignty will be inverted into permissions
because they believe a mythology that isn't real
and therefore they will behave according to the edicts
of that mythology.
And as they turn up the heat and the coming years
or even maybe a decade,
then they can easily invert those rights
to permissions in our kids, no problem.
And of course, you've got to remember
that social media is going to be working
for those whole five years or those 10 years.
Social media is going to be working very hard.
Government is going to continue to govern us with mythologies.
And so even if it doesn't happen now,
it doesn't happen in a snap, it can happen over time.
And that's exactly how this game has been played.
COVID was like an abrupt thing
to put everybody on their heels.
But now that we're on our heels,
there's not as much pressure needed.
I don't know if you're a person who does Udo
or any kind of martial arts,
but once a person is off-balanced,
then there's an incredible amount of force
is no longer necessary.
And so I think that we're currently in that state
and being sort of taken advantage of in that way.
And so we got to get our feet underneath this
and the way we do that is with biology.
And so I have broke down a couple of days ago,
the basic thing that I think where we are now,
it might have taken a while to get there.
And so some of you people that thought
I was going to repeat everything may have missed it.
But I think it was two days ago,
I did a stream where this is one of the slides in that talk
and I'm basically addressing one, two and three
in that discussion and in addressing the third one,
we are trying to sort of get ahead of the dominoes.
We identified the narrative of amyloidosis
and pre-on generation by the spike protein already
as kind of a red herring in 2020 and 2021
when a number of people were very convinced
that this was the story.
I don't wanna call out any particular names,
but there's more than one.
And some of them I even had on my stream multiple times
to talk about the various aspects
of this spike specific toxicity
and what aspects of it we could understand
and not understand.
And so one of the narratives that was running
in the background as a worst case scenario
with regard to the spike protein in particular
was the idea that it was a pre-on generating
or there was a pre-on motif in it
or that it could cause crowdsfeld yachab disease.
And one of the little hints of that
is this letter B down here.
I guess you can't see that because it's too small.
I have to switch over here.
Is this letter B?
And then I'll get rid of this
because that's supposed to be like this.
This letter B down here is a Luke Montenier paper
where I think it was 25 people who were injected
with the original J&J or the original AstraZeneca
developed acute crowdsfeld yachab disease.
So that was cool, that's interesting
but it had kind of in the beginning
of the pandemic already was being taken out of context
because those people were all convinced
and uniquely, not uniquely,
all united in their being convinced
that the paper of Luke Montenier
suggested that the spike protein did it.
And so we had to be afraid of the virus
and they didn't acknowledge the possibility,
they didn't even spit out the possibility
that it could be the transformation itself
that was causing this acute protein misfolding disorder.
Now, we're still in the gray area here.
I'm not saying there are definitely pre-ons
or definitely not pre-ons.
What I'm trying to do is take a very objective approach
to trying to look at the science that supports the idea.
I don't wanna take a side on it
especially with regard to the spike protein.
I think it would be much more important
to understand it as the biology as a phenomenon in general
and then see if the spike protein fits it
as a particular example.
And I think that that's following the same sort of rubric
that we did with COVID-19 because with COVID
and SARS-CoV-2 we first started out
with well, let's understand the immunology
and the virology of coronaviruses in general
before we start to try and understand the specifics
of this particular story.
And that got us very far, very quick.
And I think that's why we were very successful
in not getting too sucked in.
And by 2021 we were already really pushing out.
And I'm excited about this because I think
this is kind of the same sort of, it's the right approach.
So in doing it this way, my idea was to, again,
as I said, use YouTube to do it.
And so what I've found is this person named Susan,
I'm gonna move my head for a second to see
if I can see her name, Susan Linquist
of the Whitehead Institute, MIT
and the Howard Hughes, you know, Thingy Bobby.
Now, of course that's already interesting, right?
Because we know about the Whitehead Institute,
we know about MIT.
And if you go on YouTube, you will find an extraordinary
number of videos about six, seven years old of this woman
presenting lots of different takes on protein folding
and how protein folding can go wrong.
Now I'm choosing this one because I think it's a
more general video that will help me introduce
what I think is going to become essentially the main theme.
And I'm just gonna say it right here out loud
and then we'll see if that's what happens, right?
We're gonna work through this together.
But my feeling is, is that most of the biology
in prions that is purported to be understood
is actually understood in yeast.
And so they have a yeast model of prionogenesis
and how proteins can be a sort of genetic code
all by themselves and how protein folding can be inherited.
And they use this as a biological proxy
and evidence for prionogenesis and prion disease
and the mechanisms by which it occurs in other eukaryotes.
And that's the really interesting thing.
Yeast a single cellular cell organism has a eukaryote
because it has a nucleus inside of a membrane
and it's got some other membrane bound organelles.
And so because the cells have some of the same
or much of the same machinery that our cells do,
we are considered part of the same large kingdom of life.
And so molecular biologists studying prions
have used yeast as a proxy for prionogenesis
in our own cells.
Now, that I'm not saying it's good or bad.
I'm just wanting to understand the state of the art
is that prions that we don't understand in nature,
we don't understand on an island somewhere
or we don't understand in a sheep field somewhere
are often just assumed to work like the stuff
that we have observed in yeast.
And now we need to really focus together
and you can do this work on your own too
with PubMed and your own Google searches.
We need to focus to what extent?
The biology of these prions in yeast
has been misconstrued as mechanistic evidence
supporting the idea of how prionogenesis
and these neurodegenerative diseases work in mammals.
And now we're gonna have to work through this along,
it's gonna take a long time.
That's why maybe you thought
I was just gonna throw papers up there.
I did think that that's the way we would go about it,
but it's become very clear to me after postponing
for more than two weeks and trying to read more
that in order to make my point as safely
and as solid as possible,
I'm gonna need to walk a little slower toward the exit
because I don't wanna inadvertently somehow,
yeah, not that I don't mind making mistakes,
but I don't wanna make it easy
for the people that are working against us
to undermine what we're gonna do here.
So I think the more we can let other experts speak for us
and start to list the questions that we have
and identify the potential incongruencies
in their model, then we can more efficiently
and more effectively move through the literature
as we try to do journal clubs about prions
because it's really important to understand
what people like her see as the sort of big picture
of what prions are and aren't and what they mean.
And so I think this will be really interesting.
I hope you will find it that way too.
And we'll go from there.
Let's see if this works.
I just have an irregular speech.
I'm Susan Lindquist.
I'm at the Whitehead Institute
in the Department of Biology at MIT
and I'm here to tell you about protein folding.
Protein folding is a universal problem of biological systems
and it winds up influencing every aspect of biology
that you can imagine.
So these are very simple organisms
called the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae.
It's a microorganism.
This is obviously a very, very large magnification
of these organisms.
That organism is responsible for beer, bread, wine,
all kinds of things that make life worth living.
Anyway, that organism is also a wonderful experimental system
that has the same types of problems with protein folding
that those organisms over there have.
This is a universal aspect of life.
And we're used to thinking about life
in terms of all the very different things
that make up different individuals,
but there's a unifying principle of life
that relates to protein folding
and that plays out from this organism to that organism
in ways that allow us to deeply understand
some of the worst problems in human biology
and try to find clever solutions at to fix them.
So you understand already where she's at,
she's suggesting to you that the cellular machinery
of yeast is so similar to ours
and what they do is so similar to what we do,
they have the exact same problem, protein misfolding.
And so it's a very interesting place to start.
And you're starting at the stage where ribosomes
don't work that well, I guess,
or that proteins are unpredictable
or something or something.
And so it's gonna be very,
just feel it going forward.
She starts already with saying, I'm gonna warn you,
we're using yeast, yeast is a great model.
They're fantastic.
The first point she makes is yeast equals humans.
So I think that already should shed light on where we are.
And it's a very gentle presentation,
but it's a very, you know,
that's a forceful assumption right there.
We're gonna use yeast as a model
for what our own systems have to deal
with what our own systems do.
So proteins are us, many people think.
I'm gonna stop it again because that name right there,
Venki Rama Krishnan,
that's the guy who studies ribosomes.
He's like got the Nobel Prize for it.
Mark Coolack did a couple of videos,
I think at least one video on him.
And I find him a very interesting piece in the puzzle
who I'm very curious what he thinks about prions
and the role of ribosomes in them, et cetera.
Anyway, I'll try to let it run.
About proteins as being food.
The reason why we think of them as being food
is because we need to take some of those elements
of proteins into ourselves,
chop them up into little pieces,
reassemble them into our own proteins
because proteins do just about everything
that you can think of in our bodies.
Proteins are the muscle that powers our arms and legs.
Proteins are carrying pigments in our eyes
and it's when light strikes those pigments,
it causes the protein to change shape,
that sends a signal to our brain and that's how we see.
Proteins are parked in our stomachs
and ready to receive the food we eat
and tear it apart into little component parts
that we can use to build up new proteins
that, as I mentioned, do just about everything
in our biology that we think about as a living system.
Now, the problem with protein folding
is that these things look kinda complicated, right?
And they are very complicated,
but they start out very simply.
So the code of life is often called the double helix
and it's a very long linear string of information.
It itself doesn't look too interesting,
but along different parts of this,
it codes for the essential elements of proteins
that make up living systems.
And a good analogy for the way in which this information
is encoded in this long linear molecule
is to think about cassette tapes.
Now, cassette tapes were something
I played all the time when I was young.
I know that you're mostly playing CDs
and other digital forms of music.
But the cassette tape provides a really great analogy
for the way in which very complex information
can be encoded by a simple...
Now, as a member of the Broken Science Initiative,
I'd like to point out that she called this an analogy.
And I think that's a very...
It's appropriate for her to use that word
because if she said this is a great model of DNA,
then this model would make all kinds of predictions
that don't work for DNA.
And so she says it's an analogy
because it actually weakens your potential understanding
of DNA because unless the analogy is extremely on target,
which it's not,
if it was a good analogy,
it would work as a pretty good model as well.
And so keep that in mind as these people teach you biology,
are they giving you an analogy which can serve then
to make you understand their model better?
Or is it an analogy that almost disarms you
from even questioning their model?
Because if you start to understand DNA as a cassette tape,
then you've already been...
You're already kind of limited
in terms of how you're gonna understand
how protein production results from that, right?
It's a very subtle but spectacularly effective way
to assume or pretend like you're really giving good information.
When in reality, she's already undermined anybody
without previous experience in her first two minutes.
So it's only a 20 minute video,
but it will take a while to get through it
because it's very important for us
to be able to efficiently do this,
to be able to hear what people are saying
and very quickly say,
well, I understand biology like this.
And so we know that DNA is more complicated than a cassette tape.
We know it's not just a linear molecule.
We know that there are all kinds of ways
that that code can be intermixed, blocked, altered,
methylated, whatever.
We know that what we know is very little.
And so it's frustrating that she says,
this is a great analogy for it.
It's a great analogy if you don't really want to understand
where the irreducible complexity is
and what we know about it, then yeah,
this is a great analogy.
Long thread.
So here we go.
Here's a cassette tape.
You look at the tape that's wound around those two spools
and it doesn't look the least but interesting.
But when you put it into this machine
that decodes the information,
just like DNA is decoded in the machinery of the cell,
outcomes the most amazing and complex and beautiful sounds.
Oh, and those are proteins.
She really thinks she's a good presenter.
It's nice.
You get completely different sounds.
I'll probably turn that on.
And another piece of the tape.
Wow.
So how does that complexity get encoded in that simple linear molecule?
Well, that's a problem biologists
to fold up into very precise shapes in order to do anything interesting in the cell.
I find it intriguing that there is no mention of RNA at all. Now mention of RNA editing,
no mention of RNA three-dimensional shapes, no mention of RNA regulation, no mention of RNA
interaction with the, wow, I mean we just went from DNA to protein, which of course even occurs
in different compartments of our eukaryotic cell. Like, whoa, so now you see why that
cassette tape analogy is incredible. If you combine it with this, now how much biology have you
learned from the MIT lady? Are you ready to argue with somebody like Kevin McCurnan? I mean,
that's, that's the frustrating thing here. And people can watch hours and, and they will be.
And those shapes are incredibly complicated. So let's look at some real protein structures.
You can see each of these different parts of the code has been decoded into long linear string,
but that folds up and folds up and moves back and forth and back and forth on top of itself.
And it's the complexity of this fold that can actually do something powerful.
Now, the difficulty in terms of how this plays out into living systems is we don't really understand
the forces that allow the protein to fold so precisely into exactly the right shape. What we
are understanding, however, is that when they don't fold into exactly that right shape,
disaster occurs. And a way of thinking about this, again, to kind of, to illustrate this,
this process is to think again about that music, that long linear piece of information and a
cassette tape that encodes extraordinary music. Well, it's played by instruments, right? And
instruments are together playing together and they make great music. Just like the proteins
are together in a cell and they make wonderful, wonderful biology and you have different proteins
making different types of biology in your digestive system, in your brain, in your heart.
The problem is that making these complex folds is very much like taking a lot, long sheet or
square sheet of metal and moving it into forming a musical instrument.
So if you get the fold exactly right, it can play some beautiful music.
Music. But if there's some very small element of the fold that you get almost right, you don't
get it quite right. It can be a disaster. And now the principle of prions, and I hope she's going
to say that, is that there is a particular kind of fold where this horn can then sit next to other
horns and ruin those horns as well. And so again, all of a sudden the analogy falls to pieces because
their own model, well, that doesn't work with horns. And so you see what the issue is, when I make
an analogy like this, the analogy is essentially the model and the model that I'm trying to use
to make predictions that are validated in the future. And so unfortunately, this is not really a
very good model, because remember, it's not a sheet of metal. It's three dimensional electrostatic
shapes that are interacting with one another in a chain that are surrounded by a polar solvent
called water, which we know has extraordinary attributes at a molecular scale. And so if these
proteins are hydrophobic and hydrophilic, it's because they are electromagnetically hydrophobic
or electromagnetically hydrophilic. And that changes their propensity to fold inside of that
polar solvent. And so it's nowhere near the analogy of sheet metal. And it's nowhere near,
this is not a misfolded protein. So unless she says that and prions are horns that cause other
horns to crumple up, then she's not adequately taking this analogy to its logical conclusion,
and therefore really not using it effectively, actually misleading people with it.
Here's another example. Oh, she didn't even say anything.
Piece of metal folding up into a different shape, making and doing different things.
I love the French horn. It's the most beautiful sound.
Right. A fold isn't quite right. It's a disaster. So now you've got this orchestra of proteins
that make up the living system, and they need to play together exactly right. They need to
fold properly, and then they need to play together exactly right. If you want the living system
to be disease free. Wow, what an interesting, that's a whole protein instrument. That's a whole
summary of biology and the broadest terms. You got to have rightfully folded proteins if you
want the body to be free of disease. And it's not totally wrong. But it's interesting because this
whole so far, this whole lecture has been to try and convince you of the primacy of protein folding
and almost like we're always, I guess, having to deal with this problem. It's a big problem.
Misfolded protein is a huge problem apparently.
Are actually functioning together inside of a living cell. You're going to see pictures of
proteins serving as architecture and the structural integrity of the cell. You see proteins talking
to each other between cells. You'll see proteins cutting proteins, assembling into various structures,
disassembling. And all of these are part of the orchestration of life inside the living cell.
What is, oh no, we're going to use a cartoon to show us what it looks like so we're bamboozled
into believing we know. That's what this is. It would be hard to imagine that any of this stuff
is just exaggeration, right? Obviously they must know all this stuff. This must be backed by
thousands of papers. Otherwise they wouldn't make such a video, right?
Wow, look how that works. Gee, it just all does it. They just all assemble. That's so cool.
I mean, if they can make a cartoon like this, that must be how microtubules assemble.
This must be how dyin' in halls, vesicles around, must be moving along the information
highway of the cell and bringing pets of goodies from one end of the cell to the other end of the
cell. Anyway, you can see I think. I'm not saying it doesn't happen that way.
I'm suggesting to you that there are aspects of this video which are assumed because one or two
of aspects of this video are actually fairly well understood. And since we understand one or two of
these things, why can't we make assumptions about all this stuff? And one of the things that is
assumed is that somehow or another, these subunits of all these proteins just come together,
and now in a little while, she's going to show you another video, but she's not going to point
out that this video, if the other video is correct, then this video is totally wrong.
And she's not going to point that out, but she's going to, at some point, make an argument that
it's really crowded in a cell, but this is not a crowded cell. There aren't proteins everywhere
here. And so it's a very interesting, you know, we're going to flip flop back and forth over here,
and that's because she thinks you're asleep or something, I think.
The extraordinary complexity of living system and the proteins that are operating in it
to keep us biologically active and do all the amazing things that we can do.
I urge you, by the way, to get on the web and plug in that reference and take a longer look at
the movie. And there's also an animation that will tell you exactly what you're looking at all
in various parts of it. I've just shown you a very small snippet.
But this incredibly complicated biology that's represented by this beautiful movie
is misrepresented in just one particular way. And that is that in order to illustrate how
these proteins are moving about and doing their things and interacting with other proteins in
the cell, they've taken most of the proteins out of that system so that you can see them.
In reality, the cell is much, much, much more crowded.
Okay.
So you think about this complicated protein fold and the fact that different proteins have
different folds, they have to go from a long linear string of amino acids into those complicated
folds so that they can interact with themselves properly. And they have to do that in a really
crazy environment. They have to do this in an environment that's this packed with proteins.
So each one of these colors actually represents a different protein in its complex, beautiful
shape that can change and move around and do various things. But this image, although it
represents the crowding of the cell, is missing one other piece. By the way, this is a beautiful
movie by Adrian Elcock. And again, you can find it on the web.
The thing that this particular image does not convey is how energetic the system is.
Proteins are actually moving about like crazy all the time. And it's this aspect of proteins
being able to move and signal from one end of the cell to the other end of the cell,
help us to interpret what we see one moment and I'm looking here at you or looking over here at
the screen. I completely change everything I understand about what I'm looking at because
the proteins are changing shape so fast. So living systems have proteins that work at incredible
speed. And here's an example of the way they move about and how the crowding is
jostling and banging to each other all the time. So what's missing in her explanation here,
what's crucial to understand is that this is not happening in free space, right? It's happening
in the polar solvent of water at the molecular scale. So there is a potential for there to be a
lattice here. There are potential for there to be much more space between proteins, which is occupied
by less than, I mean, water is not water at the molecular scale. Water at the molecular scale is
like puzzle pieces that can kind of get locked into place, right? And so they can form kind of a
crystal lattice at that, at that size scale. So do they move around like this? Probably, but
they're moving around like this in the context of a polar solvent. And so other things can happen
besides this. And I think that for the moment, I'm just going to say that I think this is
terribly insufficient to describe what's happening. And so she's sort of hand waving over what is one
of the most beautiful places that you can bring someone to understand the irreducible complexity
of a cell. Because if you were to, you know, adequately explain how water plays a role in this,
and that sort of bring them down to understand what water is, and how that molecular three-dimensional
charged shape, polar shape, can have real physical phenomenon at that scale, and how that would then
interact with these highly polarized giant molecules, it becomes a far more compelling
place for your imagination to go as a biologist looking for the, you know, the edge where the
irreducible complexity starts. And it feels as though this is hand waving over that instead of
pointing out this is where it is. This is the irreducible complexity that we're having a lot
of fun exploring, but we have no real hope of cracking in the sense of all knowing.
And that's frustrating, but okay, let's go. The one way in which this animation doesn't quite convey
what's happening in the cell is that it too, for the purposes of clarity, has been modified
in a certain way, and that is it's been slowed down. So just as the other movie I showed you,
this was not very crowded, and things are moving around rather slowly, in this movie which shows
the crowding, things are actually not moving at real speed. So you can illustrate and understand
and look at how these proteins are interacting with each other and moving around.
In order to get a realistic idea of how fast these proteins are moving around in the cell,
you'd have to speed that movie up not ten times, not a hundred times, not a thousand times,
not a hundred thousand times, but one million times. So that movie is real slow motion compared
to what's happening in the biology and living system. And there you have the heart of the protein
folding problem, because if these long linear strings of amino acids have to fold up into these
very, very precise shapes without getting into trouble with other proteins while they're doing it,
under such incredibly kinetic energetic conditions, you can imagine that sometimes they get that
fold wrong, just like those musical instruments, if you don't, but don't fold the metal exactly.
I really feel something's wrong with this. I don't know how to say it any other way that I
don't think that that is a good portrayal of what goes on inside of a cell given what we've seen
under a microscope, given what I've seen under a microscope. I don't believe it anymore. So
I'm doing some reading on the side over here, and I'm just not buying this. I think that this
is one of those things where if you can make a computational biology paper, look at that.
It's right there. If you can make a model of something like this, that's great. That's perfect,
because that's exactly what we have with that model of the end protein and the RNA getting
packaged into a endosome with spike protein on the outside of it. We made a beautiful model
of how this works, and we have all kinds of variables in our model, and it just works out great.
And that's what I think this is. It's designed to confuse you. It's designed to make it again,
seem like everything that happens in a cell is just a random, it's just a random nonsense.
It is not a clock. Don't think of a cell like a clock. Think of it as a sack of assorted beans
that you just get, gets lucky all the time. Think about that. She's trying to convince you
that our cells work like this, and just the right enzymes come together, the right
tRNA shows up at the right ribosome at the right time through all of this mess. I mean, come on, come on.
Right. It could ruin an orchestra. The same thing can happen in living systems.
And when you say what I see on a microscope is on a fixed slide, it's actually not. I've
looked at live neurons. I've looked at live cell cultures of all kinds of cells in my career,
and they're all alive. And when you use fluorescence or you use other kinds of
means of labeling different parts, then you can see them. I've watched a frog embryo divide to
48 cells once by staying in a laboratory for almost 48 hours straight.
So I've definitely taken the time to look under real microscopes at real living cells.
In fact, I had a couple friends at Pitt that I just spent time with in the confocal microscope
room just because of what they were doing. And at least one of them was working on hippocampal
cell cultures. So again, that's live cells with with several different fluorescent labels. And so
you can see the space inside of the cells can't possibly look like what she just showed you. Otherwise,
you wouldn't be able to watch the trafficking of proteins and stuff like that, right? I mean,
that's just weird. It's strange. I don't know. And now this this if she's going to say this
has something to do with prions, I'm going to be very sad.
So I want to give you one more illustration, one more analogy. What happens when proteins start
to misfold and bang into each other in inappropriate ways and stick to each other and
something a process we call protein aggregation? And you know exactly what protein aggregation is
like. I know that you've seen it many times. The egg white in this little photograph is actually
a solution. I think we should just go back because before she ruins this idea,
I want to put something else on the screen. Think about this for a second.
Yeah, I really want to say, okay, I'm going to let her I'm sorry, I'm going to let her speak.
I don't want to ruin too much. I don't want to say too much. I just I want to let it go.
So I want to give you one more illustration, one more analogy. What happens when proteins
start to misfold and bang into each other in inappropriate ways and stick to each other and
something a process we call protein aggregation? And you know exactly what protein aggregation is
like. I know that you've seen it many times. The egg white in this little photograph is actually
a solution of protein. The proteins are all folded properly and so they're clear and beautiful
and not in any trouble. But when you apply heat to that system, the proteins start to move around
a little faster. They start banging into each other. They start unfolding a little bit. And what
happens is the properties of the biological system change completely. And that is in fact what you
get. So those and so this is actually a combination of the boiling of water, right?
And the denaturing of protein. So they go to a linear form. Now the reason why this is annoying
is because supposedly prions are you can't you can't you can't destroy them with heat.
So then prions don't are not related to that. Because if prions are a kind of protein
configuration that is immune to heat, immune to auto-claving, then this is not a good analogy
because they are proteins that can't be denatured, I guess. Why don't we use the word denatured here
because then when we come to proteins, she could say that proteins like prions can't be denatured.
In all of the reading that I've done in preparation for taking you through this part of the cave,
I have never heard anyone say that proteins can be denatured, but prion proteins cannot be denatured.
Even though as a biologist, since I was at least in high school, this is denatured protein.
Protein that is linearized linear, I can't even say it, is made linear by the application of
heat because you break all the hydrogen bonds because you of course increase the kinetic energy
of the water. I'm just very curious as to where this is going. And I know that I think you're going
to enjoy this journey that we go on. And I think at the end of this, we're going to have a very,
very succinct message about what's going on here. And we're going to be able to say, look,
anybody that's pushing this and is not saying very specifically that
transfection and healthy humans is criminally negligent because one of the worst case scenarios
is a protein misfolding disorder, then they're being extremely disingenuous. They are not playing
for our grandchildren. They were playing for team worst case scenario from the very beginning.
Anybody that sold this as a as a part of the spike protein on the virus, I'm going to put
all my chips on the fact that they have to be working against us, at least in America.
Most of the people that are anybody that's fighting for the American Republic and whatever's left of it
cannot by definition have been pushing the pre on hypothesis in 2020 or 2021 because they had to be
either wittingly or unwittingly involved in ceding that narrative because there was,
it had nothing to do with that. It had only to do with transfection and the potential for it.
And this complete whiff. This is a whiff. If you're not a baseball fan, it's when you swing and you
miss, you have a perfect pitch. It's right down in the middle. You could hit a home run with it.
You got a great big giant bat and you missed because she could just say this is denatured
protein. And so she could make two points with one. You've seen proteins that go into aggregate
aggregate proteins are often denatured ones. The examples that you know of are scrambled eggs.
But interestingly, prions are really cool because they can't be denatured. So when you apply heat
to them, they don't go away. And now she's made an adequate analogy. But instead,
this MIT professor says that this is aggregate protein. It's not denatured protein. It's
aggregated protein, which is really weird because she has to know that's wrong.
These are aggregated proteins. And it's just a nice visual illustration of the problem that
can occur when proteins don't fall properly in our living systems. So we want to understand
how we can keep the proteins looking more like this and how if they start to go off.
I just said it right there. I think that using modified RNA to transfect healthy humans is a
I don't see any reason why that couldn't result in protein misfolding. They're using a chemically
modified codon optimized viral RNA or that an RNA that they claim came from a virus. And they're
transfecting healthy humans with it. So do I know what's going to happen? Absolutely not.
As far as I'm concerned, we should leave room on that list no matter how many things we add to it
because there's always possibly another one. And one of them, unfortunately, I think is possible
is a protein misfolding disorder. Why not? I don't know if we understand these things yet,
but I'm going to show you that I think we understand a lot less about the protein misfolding disorders
that we seem to find in mammals versus what we purport to understand in yeast. And that's the
disconnect and maybe contradiction or incongruency that is being weaponized against us.
Pathway and start to form little bitty aggregates. We can bring them back to life.
Because just a little bit of that aggregation state causes disaster for a living system.
So what are the solutions that life I don't I don't like this analogy at all.
The first way we started to discover and learn something about the solutions to that problem
actually involved heat. So here we have a very simple experiment that was done with yeast cells.
We're growing yeast cells in a culture, in a shaking roman mire flask. And we took some of those
cells out. We took two identical alichlots of cells out. What I mean by an alichlot is just a
little portion of the culture. Two identical portions of the culture out. And that one on the
top there was exposed directly to a high temperature. And the proteins denatured and killed the cell.
This one on the bottom was first exposed to an intermediate temperature to allow it to
kind of condition. Basically it was exposed for half an hour to 39 degrees instead of being
shifted directly to 50 degrees. And as you can see that short half hour pre-treatment
provided tremendous increased capacity of the cells to survive that second higher heat treatment.
Now this is a universal property of life. And so it is not only true for yeast cells. It's true
for a rabbit opposite seedlings. This is basically the same experiment. A rabbit opposite seedlings
were planted in these little dishes. One treated directly at high temperatures. The other one
given this intermediate treatment that allowed it to condition itself. And then to withstand
the rigors of that more intense condition. And these are human cells in culture. Basically
the same experiment. You can do this experiment with all living organisms on earth. Because all
living organisms face the same problem of protein folding. And they all prepare for problems in
protein folding the same way. By making other proteins that help proteins to stay in their
normal shapes and sizes. So how do we find out what they're doing during those conditioning
pre-treatments? Okay so here's where the bridge gets made. Right now they do heat treatments on those
eridopsis things are on those human cells. And we need to do the the real leg work to find out if
the genes that are activated have anything to do with the genes that are activated in the yeast.
Because that's where we're going now. Now we're going to look at the genes and the proteins that
are activated in the yeast in that heat experiment. And I think although I could be wrong a lot of the
correlates in the eridopsis experiment or the correlates in a human cell experiment haven't
been fully developed. And so will can we we need to go through there's a lot of literature here.
So this is not a small task. Okay it's not going to be you know Saturday afternoon biology
prions don't exist anymore. We need to understand it and in order to understand it it's a lot of
work. And so for a while I've been thinking that I would just prepare the summary lectures
and that would be fine but it's become more and more apparent to me that I need to really
bring everybody along with me in order that you see why there's so much work necessary. Why we
have to break it down. And why after a week or two we might decide that wow this is an incredible
distraction and maybe that's the whole reason why we were throwing this in the beginning. But in
so doing in doing this exercise what we're going to be able to do is definitively say okay so do
we need to worry about this or not. And who doesn't need to worry about it why do they need to worry
about it how can we use this story to move our ball forward and that's that's what this is about.
And I think that already you're starting to see it right here I hope I chose this video correctly
so that you can it's a good on ramp to see how these shells are going to be moved around where
sometimes we're talking about human cells and and whatever and sometimes we're talking about yeast
and so it was interesting that she went to plants and an aerodopsis but we'll see we'll see what
she's got for us. What we do is we again take out a small portion of the cells and label them
with radioactive amino acids so that as the shell is making its own proteins each of those proteins
will get radioactive amino acids incorporated into it. That allows us then to visualize it what's
happened we spread those proteins out on a gel and we put a film on top of it and wherever there's
radioactivity from a newly made protein we can see the imprint will line on the gel.
And so you can see that at 25 degrees the normal temperature for this organism it's making one
group of proteins. At 39 degrees it started making a whole bunch of other proteins and the
sole function of all of those proteins is to cope with this protein folding problem.
Her assumption is the function of all those proteins is to cope with the folding problem.
That's an extraordinary thing to say. I'm sure she's done a lot of experiments they're all called
heat shock proteins but already we're working with high levels of certainty even though her
introduction was was subpar at best. They help other proteins in the cell maintain their normal
shapes or to get rid of them when they've lost their normal shapes. Now this is a very broadly
used survival response we first started working with it with heat because that's an awful simple
manipulation to make within the laboratory but it turns out these same proteins provide protection
against all sorts of different difficult conditions changes in pH, changes in the energy balance
of the cell, changes in osmotic strength, many many many different changes in the cell. In fact
but then doesn't that suggest that they should always be there and that this is just a change
in relative abundance? Wouldn't you always need those there then? I'm curious about that because
that seems to also indicate then that there are situations where the danger of misfolding is
higher or lower depending on the concentration of these proteins, right? There's a lot of things
that their model makes predictions about that they just kind of talk around. That's where I
used to annoy people all the time in neuroscience as well because they make these ridiculous simple
models of the animal's behavior and it's like well dude if that's your model you could do a
really easy experiment to test that why don't you do that first and so make sure you see what's
happening here. This is how academic biology has gotten so twisted up in itself because everybody
does this. Everybody gets their own little story tells it their own little way with their own
little characters that are the main story. When I started in in biophysics in 2001 as a
sodium, potassium channel expert wannabe that that I learned from my my supervisor that that
potassium channels that are activated by calcium are orchestrating the entire brain
and we made arguments in prose and discussed how important they were for the finest tuning
of neurons and the finest tuning of neurons is what matters
and so if you have a story about SK channels then that's the story you tell
and she has a story about heat shock proteins and so her story is about how yeast is a great
proxy for the protein folding challenges of all other eukaryotic life and so my work is
applicable to all other eukaryotic work. It's a pretty awesome place to be working
and these heat shock proteins are made exclusively to chaperone and to prevent
misfolding and also to get rid of them when they do misfold so we don't need them all the time or
or what strange what what does those jobs when when the heat shock proteins haven't been called
into action we don't have any part of that model nothing about that model is explained.
These proteins are constantly being made made in smaller amounts over and over and over again
to help cope with this very broad problem in protein folding. So this very broadly used
survival response as I showed you yeast cells I showed you arabidopsis ceilings
arabidopsis is a small little mustard plant I showed you human cells every organism on earth
is making very highly conserved very similar patterns of proteins under these stress conditions
and it turns out that that plays into human biology and medicine and just an extraordinary
variety of different ways. One of the major reasons why we want so deeply to understand
this problem is that it drives many aspects of human disease. So one of the things that it drives
is the process of infection when organisms come into our body and you can see here we've got
a fungus that is growing under normal conditions not inside the body but when it starts to grow
inside the body it senses this change in temperature and it and it starts to realize that it can
invade the biological system and the only way it can do that is by making new proteins and by
making this survival response that allows those new proteins to fold properly.
So that's one aspect of disease biology that uses that survival response all the time.
Here's another aspect of human biology that uses the survival response. So what you have
in blue is normal proteins and what you have labeled in brown here is the master regulator
of the survival response and that's normal tissue over there and you can see that the survival
response protein is kind of tucked away in little corners of the cells because it's not being used
under this normal biological system but in the cancer cells you can see that that master regulator
has been amplified a great deal it's actually present now in the center of the cell and it's
directing a whole new program of gene expression whole new sets of proteins are being made
at the dictum of the cancer cells to help protect those cancer cells and drive the malignant state.
And neurodegenerative disease these are two brain sections from a normal person and from
someone with who has died from neurodegenerative disease and what you're seeing here is the
devastation brought by misfolded proteins in the brain. So it turns out that in terms of human beings
we are a bit between a rock and a hard place with regard to this problem in protein folding
because cancer cells and infectious organisms are using their survival response this heat shock
response to kill us because it strengthens them it allows them to survive the rigors of a living
system and our brains conversely are not using the survival response when we would normally think
they should be because when we die of neurodegenerative diseases it's because proteins have
misfolded misfunction and just like those instruments that are not playing right with the orchestra
they're causing devastating disease. See how that whole now see how that whole thing fell apart
how the whole analogy fell apart now she went back to the protein folding in the in the horns and the
orchestra not playing so what she's saying that the brain doesn't have heat shock proteins and
otherwise those proteins wouldn't have misfolded that's again the same question I had before
what does this stuff in normal conditions don't they need proteins to fold correctly in normal
conditions isn't there still a chance that they will fold incorrectly in normal conditions you
showed us this chaotic you know internal cell I mean it seems really like there we have a foot
in and a foot out of this analogy and I find it very frustrating because I have the background
to follow along and I don't think she's painting a coherent picture of what the the biological question
is. This puts us in a difficult position but it's not a place where we can't move and we can't do
something important in biological experimentation and the reason why we can do do things that will
help to fix these problems is because it is such a universal problem and so we can take these very
simple organisms here these cells it's really understand more about how it's really like an
enchantment you can't see it any other way this is a carefully constructed set of slides that
ends with the same image that it began with which is a cheap trick but it's also a very
effective one and a good one that a lot of good teachers will use because you you want to run a
full circle right you want to bring people back to where you were in the beginning especially
if the beginning is the take-home message what's the take-home message here that yeast is a great
cellular proxy model for us and so now in the next video that we watch we're going to listen to how
pre-owned disease is recapitulated in yeast protein inheritance and you're going to see very easily
how it is that these two things have been misconstrued our understanding of whatever goes on in a
dish with yeast has been misconstrued with whatever goes on in the forest of a cannibalist
place in New Guinea or or in a sheep field in the UK I really think that's a possible
a possible problem in our near future and I think that they would love it they would absolutely
love it if the skilled tv watchers would really take pre-ons at cartoon face value they are
proteins that are unable to be you know destroyed by autoclave if you just get one protein in you
you are definitely dead once you once you have it it's over and this is just the way these things work
um I think we're we're gonna have a lot of fun over the next couple of weeks
simple organisms here these cells I think we're gonna have a lot of fun over the next couple of weeks
how that the biology of that system is driven how how to correct protein folding and how it goes
wrong in order to help these people over here with all of those different protein probing problems
I just mentioned to you so I'll be talking to you about that in the next lecture I'm so excited so
that we've really found our thing here I think we really did we found it I think this is our new
teacher um we're going to use her regularly because I do think that's the way we go forward
it's not that it's not that I'm always going to use videos but I really need you to feel it
I need you to feel how there has been a concerted effort to push this idea out I've also found it
feels like countless countless like mid-level podcasters with very good production values
relatively decent followings making very certain videos about pre-on disease and what happened
before and what's gonna happen in the future and making fun of how the worst-case scenario is
pretty ugly it is starting to become to me very obvious that something strange is going on
and so we have the opportunity to get ahead of the dominoes and before this becomes some kind
of weird narrative that they start to misconstrue what we're probably well expected developments
from the multiple transfections that they've rolled out they're going to be able to cover it up
and they're going to try to cover it up by misconstruing the spike as having a particular
effect the transfection itself of course doesn't and that's a lie I'm sure it's a lie and I'm sure
it's well I'm not sure but I got a lot of chips on the fact that that's probably coming and so if
that is the case then this is the way we get ahead of it we learn this biology better than they know
it and if we do that then we will be able to exercise informed consent because they won't be
able to bamboozle us I think this is a good place for me to stop I hope you don't mind if I
stop now I'm going to go to basketball at four and then I do have this stream with Jason Levine
tonight at seven o'clock I'll talk to Jason he uses Google Google whatever you call it so I
might be able to do it with sound only and then I could go live while he's recording it so I'll
just see what he thinks about it I'm not going to do it without his permission or something but
that would be at seven o'clock if that's going to happen and yeah I think this has been a pretty
good start again I'm what I'm trying to do is break you into the idea that that pre-owned biology
is for the most part based in yeast and so it we we really need to dig into what do we understand
from yeast and what we understand from pre-owned disease in the wild and see if these two things
can be brought together in a way that allows us to truly assess what the what you know the real
biology is that's what we do here um ladies and gentlemen stop all transfections and humans
because they are trying to eliminate the control group by any means necessary and this has been
giga-owned biological a high-resistance low-noise information for you brought to you by a biologist
where intramuscular injection of any combination of substances with the intent of augmenting the
immune system is dumb. Transfection in healthy humans is criminally negligent and I'm going to
be a little less complicated than here and say RNA cannot pandemic that's the way it should be
um so yeah that was the show um thanks very much again for coming and uh I will see you
probably tonight um but you won't be able to see Jason you won't be able to see Chet um so I don't
I don't know it might be better than nothing um and then uh yeah it's giga-owned biological.com
if you want to share the stream um there's all kinds of ways to do it but that might be one um
also screen.gigome.vio is really the algorithm free search engine free you just find our stuff
there just the recent stuff there's a little bit from mark um and then the rest of the stuff is
just for me it's kind of a new archive that we're building um and so yeah thanks a lot for joining
me and I will see you tonight and definitely also tomorrow I swear we are eventually gonna
get to 1313 eastern time every day um it's just uh yeah it's a priority thing and sometimes
I have one paying client right now and so when I get a phone call from her I do need to take it
and so that sometimes it's during containing it so I have to wait till two or whatever
anyway thank you very much thanks Jeff from Earth for all the clips on instagram um and uh yeah
see you guys soon